[MUSIC]
In this video, we will see another
approach to avoid computing the evidence.
It is called the conjugate distributions.
Here's our Bayes formula again.
Note that a likelihood is
fixed by our model, and
the evidence is fixed by our data.
What we can vary though is a prior,
and it is our own choice.
So let's select it in the way, let's
prove it easier to compute the procedure.
The prior is said to be
conjugate to the likelihood.
If the prior and the posterior lie
in the same family of distributions.
For example, if the prior was normal
parameterized by some parameters mu and
sigma, we'd expect the posterior
to be also normal but
with some other mean end variance.
Here's an example.
Our likelihood is normal since with
around theta with suffix squared and
sigma squared.
What would be the conjugate prior?
Well, what if we choose
a normal distribution?
Here, I have two normal distributions.
What will happen if I multiply them and
renormalize in the way that
they were integrate to one?
Actually, we'll get again
a normal distribution.
Why does it happen so?
The normal distribution is actually
a constant times the exponent
in the power of some parabola.
And when we multiply two long
distributions, those two parabolas sum up.
And, again, we get another parabola.
So the solution to this problem
would be a normal distribution.
To be a normal of theta,
parameterized by some mean m and
variance sigma s squared.
And the posterior would be also normal,
parameterized by some mu mean a and
variance b squared.
So let's see how it works
on a numerical example.
Imagine that the likelihood is a normal
centered around theta with variance 1,
and the prior is a standard normal.
That is the mean is 0 and
the variance is 1.
We can drop all the constants and
get the following form.
So we have the product of two exponents.
You will rearrange the terms,
we will get the exponent from which we can
easily find out the mean and the variance.
The mean will be x squared x half,
and the variance would be also half.
[MUSIC]